---
layout: post
title:  "I'm on Google Summer of Code!"
date:   2016-05-29
resume: A little explanation about my summer of code
image: lighthouse.jpg
permalink: /blog/:year/:month/:day/:title
---

Hi!

My name is [Matheus Fernandes](http://github.com/msfernandes), I’m a Software Engineering student at Universidade de Brasília, Brazil. I love code and Python is my preferred language! In the free time I like to play electric or acoustic guitar, but lately I don’t have much time for this :(

I started in web development world in 2013, using python and django, since then I always try to work with these technologies. I loved it! Of course that I still use other tools, such as Ruby, C++, Java.. But I prefer Python! :)

Some time ago, I became interested in frontend and design areas because I wanted to make beautiful things. So I started to use CSS frameworks like Bootstrap, Foundation and MaterializeCSS. Today, I'm capable to create pages without these frameworks, but I still using theirs grid implementation and some components.

Since I knew [Google Summer of Code](http://summerofcode.withgoogle.com) started looking for projects that involved frontend issues and enhancements and the [openSUSE 101](http://101.opensuse.org/) page caught my attention for being different from the “wiki” stardard from the other organizations. When I saw [“Improve the UI of Portus”](https://github.com/openSUSE/mentoring/issues/44) I thought: “That’s it!”, and started to contribute to the project, working on small UI issues. After two merge requests accepted I started writing my GSoC proposal.

On April 22 I received a really great news: my project proposal was accepted and I will be working with [Miquel Sabaté Solà](http://github.com/mssola), my project mentor, during the next three months, to reach the following goals:

<div class="post-list">
  <ul>
    <li>Improve the responsivity of Portus, specially on small screens;</li>
    <li>Serve assets only when used;</li>
    <li>Improve search and filter features;</li>
    <li>Improve dashboard interface;</li>
    <li>Create a help section on Portus page;</li>
    <li>Create a "Explore" feature, and</li>
  </ul>
</div>

For these goals, CSS, Javascript/CoffeScript and HTML skills are essential! Also, a previous knowledge about Ruby on Rails would be great because some issues need updates on application code too. Unfortunately, Rails is a framework in which I’m not too experienced but my background with the Django framework could help to understand quickly how Rails works.

I’m sure that this summer will be great!

